The working of genetic algorithms starts with the process of initialization where a set of individuals is generated that we refer to as population. It contains a set of parameters called genes that are combined into a string and generate chromosomes. These chromosomes are the solution to the problem that are derived by the technique of random binary strings. The fitness function of the genetic algorithm determines an individual’s ability to compete with other individuals. It provides the score to each individual that determines its probability of being selected for the process of reproduction.In this phase, out of all the steps of genetic algorithm, individuals are selected to produce offspring by arranging them in a pair of two. Three types of selection methods are leveraged in this process that are listed below. Rank based selection, Tournament selection, Roulette wheel selection. In the reproduction step, the genetic algorithm leverages two variation operators. These are applied to the parent population. These two operators are: Crossover: In this process, a crossover point is selected within the genes randomly. This operator then swaps the genetic information of the two selected parents or say individuals from the current generation to produce an offspring. There are various styles for crossover among the parents namely one-point crossover, two-point crossover, livery crossover, and inheritable algorithms crossover. The genes of the chosen fittest parents are exchanged until the crossover point is met. When the process ends, an offspring is produced that includes genes from both the parents. Mutation: In this process, a random gene is inserted in the offspring in order to maintain the diversity in the population. There are three types of mutation styles available namely flip bit mutation, gaussian mutation, and exchange or swap mutation. This operator helps in resolving the premature convergence issue and enhances diversification in the population. Termination: Now that the offspring is produced, the reproduction face is terminated by applying a stopping criterion. The algorithm reaches the end of the process after the threshold fitness solution is reached. Further, it identifies the final yet best solution in the population.


para 2 small
In reactive machines, the AI’s main goal is to complete a task by reacting to the information presented to it. This type of artificial intelligence system isn’t able to store memory of previous data, therefore it can’t use data in order to fine-tune its responses to a present task. For this reason, reactive AI machines are generally used to perform specific tasks with set outcomes rather than learn from a multitude of different scenarios. 

Bhopal Event:
December 2004 marked the twentieth anniversary of the massive toxic gas leak from Union Carbide Corporation's chemical plant in Bhopal in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India that killed more than 3,800 people. This review examines the health effects of exposure to the disaster, the legal response, the lessons learned and whether or not these are put into practice in India in terms of industrial development, environmental management and public health. History: In the 1970s, the Indian government initiated policies to encourage foreign companies to invest in local industry. Union Carbide Corporation (UCC) was asked to build a plant for the manufacture of Sevin, a pesticide commonly used throughout Asia. As part of the deal, India's government insisted that a significant percentage of the investment come from local shareholders. The government itself had a 22% stake in the company's subsidiary, Union Carbide India Limited (UCIL). The company built the plant in Bhopal because of its central location and access to transport infrastructure. The specific site within the city was zoned for light industrial and commercial use, not for hazardous industry. The plant was initially approved only for formulation of pesticides from component chemicals, such as MIC imported from the parent company, in relatively small quantities. However, pressure from competition in the chemical industry led UCIL to implement "backward integration" – the manufacture of raw materials and intermediate products for formulation of the final product within one facility. This was inherently a more sophisticated and hazardous process. In 1984, the plant was manufacturing Sevin at one quarter of its production capacity due to decreased demand for pesticides. Widespread crop failures and famine on the subcontinent in the 1980s led to increased indebtedness and decreased capital for farmers to invest in pesticides. Local managers were directed to close the plant and prepare it for sale in July 1984 due to decreased profitability. When no ready buyer was found, UCIL made plans to dismantle key production units of the facility for shipment to another developing country. In the meantime, the facility continued to operate with safety equipment and procedures far below the standards found in its sister plant in Institute, West Virginia. The local government was aware of safety problems but was reticent to place heavy industrial safety and pollution control burdens on the struggling industry because it feared the economic effects of the loss of such a large employer. At 11.00 PM on December 2 1984, while most of the one million residents of Bhopal slept, an operator at the plant noticed a small leak of methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas and increasing pressure inside a storage tank. The vent-gas scrubber, a safety device designer to neutralize toxic discharge from the MIC system, had been turned off three weeks prior. Apparently a faulty valve had allowed one ton of water for cleaning internal pipes to mix with forty tons of MIC. A 30 ton refrigeration unit that normally served as a safety component to cool the MIC storage tank had been drained of its coolant for use in another part of the plant. Pressure and heat from the vigorous exothermic reaction in the tank continued to build. The gas flare safety system was out of action and had been for three months. At around 1.00 AM, December 3, loud rumbling reverberated around the plant as a safety valve gave way sending a plume of MIC gas into the early morning air. Within hours, the streets of Bhopal were littered with human corpses and the carcasses of buffaloes, cows, dogs and birds. An estimated 3,800 people died immediately, mostly in the poor slum colony adjacent to the UCC plant [1, 5]. Local hospitals were soon overwhelmed with the injured, a crisis further comepounded by a lack of knowledge of exactly what gas was involved and what its effects wer. It became one of the worst chemical disasters in history and the name Bhopal became synonymous with industrial catastrophe.Estimates of the number of people killed in the first few days by the plume from the UCC plant run as high as 10,000, with 15,000 to 20,000 premature deaths reportedly occurring in the subsequent two decades [6]. The Indian government reported that more than half a million people were exposed to the gas [7]. Several epidemiological studies conducted soon after the accident showed significant morbidity and increased mortality in the exposed population. Table 1. summarizes early and late effects on health. These data are likely to under-represent the true extent of adverse health effects because many exposed individuals left Bhopal immediately following the disaster never to return and were therefore lost to follow-up 
